README.md, before:

<div id="top"></div>
<!--
*** Thanks for checking out the Best-README-Template. If you have a suggestion
*** that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request
*** or simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
*** Don't forget to give the project a star!
*** Thanks again! Now go create something AMAZING! :D
-->

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->

<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->

<!-- 
***[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]
-->

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->

<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/">
    <img src="figure/openr_logo.png" alt="Logo" width="200">
  </a>
  
<h1 align="center" style="font-size: 30px;"><strong><em>OpenR</em></strong>: An Open Source Framework for Advanced Reasoning with Large Language Models</h1>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09671">Paper</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/reports/Tutorial-LLM-Reasoning-Wang.pdf">Tutorial</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr">Code</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://openreasoner.github.io/">Docs</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://huggingface.co/datasets/openreasoner/MATH-APS">Data</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://huggingface.co/openreasoner/Math-psa">Model</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/issues">Issue</a>
  </p>
    <p align="center">
     [ <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/README.md">English</a> ][ <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/README_zh.md">中文</a> ]
    </p>
</div>

---
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/openreasoner/openr)][contributors-url]
[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/ArXiv-2410.09671-b31b1b.svg)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09671)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/openreasoner/openr)
[![GitHub Issues or Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/openreasoner/openr)][issues-url]
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/openreasoner/openr)][forks-url]
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/openreasoner/openr)][stars-url]
[![HuggingFace Dataset](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugging%20Face-FFD21E?logo=huggingface&logoColor=000)](https://huggingface.co/openreasoner)
[![X](https://img.shields.io/badge/openreasoner-%23000000.svg?logo=X&logoColor=white)](https://x.com/openreasoner)
[![WeChat](https://img.shields.io/badge/WeChat_Group-07C160?logo=wechat&logoColor=white)](#community)


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->

[//]: # (<details>)
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#news-and-updates">News and Updates</a></li>
    <li><a href="#features">Features</a></li>
    <li><a href="#plots">Plots</a></li>
    <li><a href="#provided-datasets-and-models">Datasets and Models</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#quickstart">Quick Start</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#join-us">Join Us</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#response-examples">Response Examples</a></li>
    <li><a href="#community">Community</a></li>
    <li><a href="#reference">Reference</a></li>
  </ol>

[//]: # (</details>)

<!-- News and Updates -->

## News and Updates

- **[15/10/2024]** Our report is on [**Arxiv**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09671)! 
- **[12/10/2024]** ***OpenR*** has been released! 🚀 


## Features

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/logo_text.png" alt="Description" style="width: 300px; margin-left: 50px; float: right;">
</p>

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
<ul style="list-style-type: none; padding: 0;">
    <li><strong>✅ Process-supervision Data Generation</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Online Policy Training</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Generative and Discriminative PRM Training</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Multiple Search Strategies</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Test-time Computation and Scaling Law</strong></li>
</ul>
</div>

## Plots

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/compare_prm_by_boN.png" alt="PRM_Results" width="45%" />
  <img src="./figure/MATH_subsampled.png" alt="Inference_Results" width="45%" />
</p>

## Provided Datasets and Models

[//]: # ([PRM800K]&#40;https://github.com/openai/prm800k&#41; &#40;Process Supervision Dataset&#41;)

[MATH-APS](https://huggingface.co/datasets/mengfang/MATH-APS) (Our Dataset)

[MATH-psa](https://huggingface.co/openreasoner/Math-psa) (Our Process Reward Model)

## Getting Started


### Installation

```
conda create -n open_reasoner python=3.10
conda activate open_reasoner
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip3 install  "fschat[model_worker,webui]"
pip install -U pydantic
cd envs/MATH/latex2sympy
pip install -e .
cd -
```


### Download Base Models


Before running the project, please ensure that all required base models are downloaded. The models used in this project include:

- `Qwen2.5-Math-1.5B-Instruct`, `Qwen2.5-Math-7B-Instruct`
- `Qwen2.5-Math-RM-72B`
- `peiyi9979/mistral-7b-sft`
- `peiyi9979/math-shepherd-mistral-7b-prm`

To download these models, please refer to the [Hugging Face model downloading tutorial](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-downloading) for step-by-step guidance on downloading models from the Hugging Face Hub.

Please make sure that all models are saved in their directories according to the project setup before proceeding.


### Quickstart

Before running inference, please modify the following variables in the scripts under `reason/llm_service/` to set the appropriate base models for your usage:

- `$MODEL_BASE`: Set this to the directory where your models are stored.
- `$POLICY_MODEL_NAME`: Set this to the name of the policy model you wish to use.
- `$VALUE_MODEL_NAME`: Set this to the name of the value model you wish to use.
- `$NUM_LM_WORKER`: Set this to the number of language model (LM) workers to start.
- `$NUM_RM_WORKER`: Set this to the number of reward model (RM) workers to start.

Then it prepares and runs inference using different techniques.

#### Start LM & RM Services
For example, to start the LM and RM services for the Math Shepherd model, run the following command:
```bash
sh reason/llm_service/create_service_math_shepherd.sh
```

## Usage

#### Run Inference


⚠️ Make sure the input (`--LM`, `--RM`) in the script aligns with the variables (`$POLICY_MODEL_NAME`, `$VALUE_MODEL_NAME`) in the pending worker!



```bash
export PYTHONPATH=$(pwd)
sh scripts/eval/cot_greedy.sh

# Method: cot. Average result: ({'majority_vote': 0.734, 'total_completion_tokens': 559.13},)

sh scripts/eval/cot_rerank.sh

# Method: best_of_n. Average result: ({'majority_vote': 0.782, 
#                                       'prm_min_max': 0.772, 
#                                       'prm_min_vote': 0.792, 
#                                       'prm_last_max': 0.776, 
#                                       'prm_last_vote': 0.792, 
#                                       'total_completion_tokens': 4431.268},)

sh scripts/eval/beam_search.sh

# Method: beam_search. Average result: ({'majority_vote': 0.74, 'total_completion_tokens': 2350.492},)


```

#### Run Training

⚠️ Before training, please modify the `$dataset_path`, `$model_name_or_path` and `$prm_name_or_path` in `train/mat/scripts/train_llm.sh`.

```bash
cd train/mat/scripts
bash train_llm.sh
```

#### Run PRM Learning

```bash
cd prm/code

\\ single gpu
python finetune_qwen_single_gpu.py --model_path $YOUR_MODEL_PATH \
                                   --train_data_path $TRAIN_DATA_PATH \
                                   --test_data_path $TEST_DATA_PATH


\\ multi gpu
torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 finetune_qwen.py --model_path $YOUR_MODEL_PATH \
                                             --data_path $YOUR_DATA_FOLDER_PATH \
                                             --datasets both \
```

## Join Us

> Every contribution is valuable to the community.

Thank you for your interest in ***OpenR*** ! 🥰 We are deeply committed to the open-source community, 
and we welcome contributions from everyone. Your efforts, whether big or small, help us grow and improve. 
Contributions aren’t limited to code—answering questions, helping others, enhancing our 
documentation, and sharing the project are equally impactful. 

Feel free to checkout the [contribution guidance](CONTRIBUTING.md) ! 

### Future Plan

- Add More Comprehensive Evaluations on RL Training and Search Strategies

- Scaling the Prove-Verifier Model Size

- Support Self-improvement Training

<!-- CONTACT -->

## Contact

The ***OpenR*** community is maintained by:

- **Openreasoner Team** (openreasoner@gmail.com)

## License
OpenR is released under the MIT License.

## Citation

If you do find our resources helpful, please cite our paper:

```
@article{wang2024openr,
  title={OpenR: An Open Source Framework for Advanced Reasoning with Large Language Models},
  author={Wang, Jun and Fang, Meng and Wan, Ziyu and Wen, Muning and Zhu, Jiachen and Liu, Anjie and Gong, Ziqin and Song, Yan and Chen, Lei and Ni, Lionel M and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.09671},
  year={2024}
}
```

## Response Examples

### Comparing PRM, Math-psa (Ours) V.S. Math-Shepherd 

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA1.png" alt="QA 1" width="49%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA2.png" alt="QA 2" width="49%" />
</p>


### Justifing RL Training

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA3.png" alt="QA 3" width="49%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA4.png" alt="QA 4" width="49%" />
</p>

### Exploring Test-time Computation

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA5.png" alt="QA 5" width="70%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA6.png" alt="QA 6" width="70%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA7.png" alt="QA 7" width="70%" />
</p>


## Community

**WeChat**:

<img src="./figure/wechat_qrcode.jpg" width="30%" />



## Reference

### Inference-time Computing
[1] [Alphazero-like tree-search can guide large language model decoding and training.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17179)

[2] [Reasoning with language model is planning with world model.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.14992)

[3] [Scaling LLM test-time compute optimally can be more effective than scaling model parameters](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.03314?)

[4] [Think before you speak: Training language models with pause tokens](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02226)


### From Outcome Supervision to Process Supervision

[1] [Training verifiers to solve math word problems](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.14168)

[2] [Solving math word problems with process-and outcome-based feedback](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.14275)

[3] [Let’s verify step by step](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.20050)

[4] [Making large language models better reasoners with step-aware verifier](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.02336)

[5] [Ovm, outcome-supervised value models for planning in
mathematical reasoning](https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-naacl.55.pdf)

[6] [Generative verifiers: Reward modeling as next-token prediction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.15240)

### Data Acquisition

[1] [Star: Bootstrapping reasoning with reasoning](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/639a9a172c044fbb64175b5fad42e9a5-Paper-Conference.pdf)

[2] [Quiet-star: Language models can teach themselves to think before speaking](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.09629)

[3] [Improve mathematical reasoning in language models by automated
process supervision](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.06592)

[4] [Shepherd: A critic for language model generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04592)

[5] [Math-shepherd: Verify and reinforce llms step-by-step without human annotations](https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.510.pdf)

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->

<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->

[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/issues

[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/LICENSE.txt

Commit message:

Update README.md about how to stop tmux

README.md, after:

<div id="top"></div>
<!--
*** Thanks for checking out the Best-README-Template. If you have a suggestion
*** that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request
*** or simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
*** Don't forget to give the project a star!
*** Thanks again! Now go create something AMAZING! :D
-->

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->

<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->

<!-- 
***[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]
-->

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->

<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/">
    <img src="figure/openr_logo.png" alt="Logo" width="200">
  </a>
  
<h1 align="center" style="font-size: 30px;"><strong><em>OpenR</em></strong>: An Open Source Framework for Advanced Reasoning with Large Language Models</h1>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09671">Paper</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/reports/Tutorial-LLM-Reasoning-Wang.pdf">Tutorial</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr">Code</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://openreasoner.github.io/">Docs</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://huggingface.co/datasets/openreasoner/MATH-APS">Data</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://huggingface.co/openreasoner/Math-psa">Model</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/issues">Issue</a>
  </p>
    <p align="center">
     [ <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/README.md">English</a> ][ <a href="https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/README_zh.md">中文</a> ]
    </p>
</div>

---
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/openreasoner/openr)][contributors-url]
[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/ArXiv-2410.09671-b31b1b.svg)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.09671)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/openreasoner/openr)
[![GitHub Issues or Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/openreasoner/openr)][issues-url]
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/openreasoner/openr)][forks-url]
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/openreasoner/openr)][stars-url]
[![HuggingFace Dataset](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugging%20Face-FFD21E?logo=huggingface&logoColor=000)](https://huggingface.co/openreasoner)
[![X](https://img.shields.io/badge/openreasoner-%23000000.svg?logo=X&logoColor=white)](https://x.com/openreasoner)
[![WeChat](https://img.shields.io/badge/WeChat_Group-07C160?logo=wechat&logoColor=white)](#community)


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->

[//]: # (<details>)
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#news-and-updates">News and Updates</a></li>
    <li><a href="#features">Features</a></li>
    <li><a href="#plots">Plots</a></li>
    <li><a href="#provided-datasets-and-models">Datasets and Models</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#quickstart">Quick Start</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#join-us">Join Us</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#response-examples">Response Examples</a></li>
    <li><a href="#community">Community</a></li>
    <li><a href="#reference">Reference</a></li>
  </ol>

[//]: # (</details>)

<!-- News and Updates -->

## News and Updates

- **[15/10/2024]** Our report is on [**Arxiv**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09671)! 
- **[12/10/2024]** ***OpenR*** has been released! 🚀 


## Features

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/logo_text.png" alt="Description" style="width: 300px; margin-left: 50px; float: right;">
</p>

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
<ul style="list-style-type: none; padding: 0;">
    <li><strong>✅ Process-supervision Data Generation</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Online Policy Training</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Generative and Discriminative PRM Training</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Multiple Search Strategies</strong></li>
    <li><strong>✅ Test-time Computation and Scaling Law</strong></li>
</ul>
</div>

## Plots

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/compare_prm_by_boN.png" alt="PRM_Results" width="45%" />
  <img src="./figure/MATH_subsampled.png" alt="Inference_Results" width="45%" />
</p>

## Provided Datasets and Models

[//]: # ([PRM800K]&#40;https://github.com/openai/prm800k&#41; &#40;Process Supervision Dataset&#41;)

[MATH-APS](https://huggingface.co/datasets/mengfang/MATH-APS) (Our Dataset)

[MATH-psa](https://huggingface.co/openreasoner/Math-psa) (Our Process Reward Model)

## Getting Started


### Installation

```
conda create -n open_reasoner python=3.10
conda activate open_reasoner
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip3 install  "fschat[model_worker,webui]"
pip install -U pydantic
cd envs/MATH/latex2sympy
pip install -e .
cd -
```


### Download Base Models


Before running the project, please ensure that all required base models are downloaded. The models used in this project include:

- `Qwen2.5-Math-1.5B-Instruct`, `Qwen2.5-Math-7B-Instruct`
- `Qwen2.5-Math-RM-72B`
- `peiyi9979/mistral-7b-sft`
- `peiyi9979/math-shepherd-mistral-7b-prm`

To download these models, please refer to the [Hugging Face model downloading tutorial](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-downloading) for step-by-step guidance on downloading models from the Hugging Face Hub.

Please make sure that all models are saved in their directories according to the project setup before proceeding.


### Quickstart

Before running inference, please modify the following variables in the scripts under `reason/llm_service/` to set the appropriate base models for your usage:

- `$MODEL_BASE`: Set this to the directory where your models are stored.
- `$POLICY_MODEL_NAME`: Set this to the name of the policy model you wish to use.
- `$VALUE_MODEL_NAME`: Set this to the name of the value model you wish to use.
- `$NUM_LM_WORKER`: Set this to the number of language model (LM) workers to start.
- `$NUM_RM_WORKER`: Set this to the number of reward model (RM) workers to start.

Then it prepares and runs inference using different techniques.

#### Start LM & RM Services
For example, to start the LM and RM services for the Math Shepherd model, run the following command:
```bash
sh reason/llm_service/create_service_math_shepherd.sh
```

To kill the server processes, recommend using the following command:
```bash
tmux kill-session -t {Your Session Name} # default is `FastChat`
```

## Usage

#### Run Inference


⚠️ Make sure the input (`--LM`, `--RM`) in the script aligns with the variables (`$POLICY_MODEL_NAME`, `$VALUE_MODEL_NAME`) in the pending worker!



```bash
export PYTHONPATH=$(pwd)
sh scripts/eval/cot_greedy.sh

# Method: cot. Average result: ({'majority_vote': 0.734, 'total_completion_tokens': 559.13},)

sh scripts/eval/cot_rerank.sh

# Method: best_of_n. Average result: ({'majority_vote': 0.782, 
#                                       'prm_min_max': 0.772, 
#                                       'prm_min_vote': 0.792, 
#                                       'prm_last_max': 0.776, 
#                                       'prm_last_vote': 0.792, 
#                                       'total_completion_tokens': 4431.268},)

sh scripts/eval/beam_search.sh

# Method: beam_search. Average result: ({'majority_vote': 0.74, 'total_completion_tokens': 2350.492},)


```

#### Run Training

⚠️ Before training, please modify the `$dataset_path`, `$model_name_or_path` and `$prm_name_or_path` in `train/mat/scripts/train_llm.sh`.

```bash
cd train/mat/scripts
bash train_llm.sh
```

#### Run PRM Learning

```bash
cd prm/code

\\ single gpu
python finetune_qwen_single_gpu.py --model_path $YOUR_MODEL_PATH \
                                   --train_data_path $TRAIN_DATA_PATH \
                                   --test_data_path $TEST_DATA_PATH


\\ multi gpu
torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 finetune_qwen.py --model_path $YOUR_MODEL_PATH \
                                             --data_path $YOUR_DATA_FOLDER_PATH \
                                             --datasets both \
```

## Join Us

> Every contribution is valuable to the community.

Thank you for your interest in ***OpenR*** ! 🥰 We are deeply committed to the open-source community, 
and we welcome contributions from everyone. Your efforts, whether big or small, help us grow and improve. 
Contributions aren’t limited to code—answering questions, helping others, enhancing our 
documentation, and sharing the project are equally impactful. 

Feel free to checkout the [contribution guidance](CONTRIBUTING.md) ! 

### Future Plan

- Add More Comprehensive Evaluations on RL Training and Search Strategies

- Scaling the Prove-Verifier Model Size

- Support Self-improvement Training

<!-- CONTACT -->

## Contact

The ***OpenR*** community is maintained by:

- **Openreasoner Team** (openreasoner@gmail.com)

## License
OpenR is released under the MIT License.

## Citation

If you do find our resources helpful, please cite our paper:

```
@article{wang2024openr,
  title={OpenR: An Open Source Framework for Advanced Reasoning with Large Language Models},
  author={Wang, Jun and Fang, Meng and Wan, Ziyu and Wen, Muning and Zhu, Jiachen and Liu, Anjie and Gong, Ziqin and Song, Yan and Chen, Lei and Ni, Lionel M and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.09671},
  year={2024}
}
```

## Response Examples

### Comparing PRM, Math-psa (Ours) V.S. Math-Shepherd 

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA1.png" alt="QA 1" width="49%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA2.png" alt="QA 2" width="49%" />
</p>


### Justifing RL Training

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA3.png" alt="QA 3" width="49%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA4.png" alt="QA 4" width="49%" />
</p>

### Exploring Test-time Computation

<p align="center">
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA5.png" alt="QA 5" width="70%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA6.png" alt="QA 6" width="70%" />
  <img src="./figure/QA/QA7.png" alt="QA 7" width="70%" />
</p>


## Community

**WeChat**:

<img src="./figure/wechat_qrcode.jpg" width="30%" />



## Reference

### Inference-time Computing
[1] [Alphazero-like tree-search can guide large language model decoding and training.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17179)

[2] [Reasoning with language model is planning with world model.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.14992)

[3] [Scaling LLM test-time compute optimally can be more effective than scaling model parameters](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.03314?)

[4] [Think before you speak: Training language models with pause tokens](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02226)


### From Outcome Supervision to Process Supervision

[1] [Training verifiers to solve math word problems](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.14168)

[2] [Solving math word problems with process-and outcome-based feedback](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.14275)

[3] [Let’s verify step by step](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.20050)

[4] [Making large language models better reasoners with step-aware verifier](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.02336)

[5] [Ovm, outcome-supervised value models for planning in
mathematical reasoning](https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-naacl.55.pdf)

[6] [Generative verifiers: Reward modeling as next-token prediction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.15240)

### Data Acquisition

[1] [Star: Bootstrapping reasoning with reasoning](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/639a9a172c044fbb64175b5fad42e9a5-Paper-Conference.pdf)

[2] [Quiet-star: Language models can teach themselves to think before speaking](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.09629)

[3] [Improve mathematical reasoning in language models by automated
process supervision](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.06592)

[4] [Shepherd: A critic for language model generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04592)

[5] [Math-shepherd: Verify and reinforce llms step-by-step without human annotations](https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.510.pdf)

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->

<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->

[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/issues

[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/openreasoner/openr.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/openreasoner/openr/blob/main/LICENSE.txt
